# 18-652: Foundations of Software Engineering

| Category | Difficulty |
|:-:       | :-:        |
| Project  | 8          |
| Exams    | 3          |

The course is project-based, which intends to give you a good understanding of how software engineer works. To be specific, you will learn lots practices for software engineering, which then you will apply to your group project. It is going to involve a lot of collaboration. The requirements are given every fortnight. It is going to be very time consuming and lots of drama for some teams. This course will provide you a good foundation to take Software Engineering Methoda and Software Design and Architecture in your future semesters. Having good communication skills and time will make your life easier. :)

## Topics Covered

Software engineering methods
UML
Object Oriented Programming
Design Pattern
Unit testing
Version Control
CI/CD
Pair programming
Requirements analysis

## Course logistics

There are (videos or reading) and a quiz every week, a Final, a group project but there will be a fortnight that you will work on your own feature.
The project is typical web-based application. You need to know JavaScript, NodeJs, and a database.

## How to do well

Attend every classes. Make sure you do every quiz. There are quiz in the class and outside the class. Prepare your mind to work in team. Try to develop positive relationship with your teammates. Have an empathy for your teammates. There will be a lot of decision to make in the project so there can be a disagreement and frustration, so it is better to prepare your mind to be willing to colabolate with others. Try to keep your code clean because requirements will be more and more difficult, so if your code is unorganized it will twice and heavy.

Around Week 7, there will be a pair programming week, where you are not allow to write code by only yourself for your group project. You need to partner with one of your teammates, and perform pair programming.

Around Week 9, You will have to design and implement your own feature, which will be graded individually. There is a couple of challenge here. Your teammates are not allow to help. Several people will work on same code base which is extending divertly, because everyone has their own feature. Later on you also need to merge those divert code back together.

The Final exam will be about topic you learn in class, lots of software design, lots of UML drawing.

Tip: Be nice with your TA. They will have to review your project every week.
